We're really touching to the points, points of the qualities in the teachings, and we're not
running kind of like horse race, they're running, and then we're just going through that.
So, and we're just going, and that's what also I mentioned, I was trying to do, talk this, or go
through this, or about three years, I don't know, you know, that I said those things, and so, but I
, I really feel that the confidence in myself that we're making some progress,
of the understanding and knowledge of the teachings in general, and particularly in the Dokki
teachings, that's what I felt, and that's what also is some reminder, as I said many times,
reminding to yourself, also reminding to myself, so we're all helping.
As a Sangha member, what did the great teacher Buddha say? Helping support each other is a quality
and identity of Sangha members, so, some really, we're helping support each other, so that is
really doing that, and, and so, so in that way now, we go to the, to this, this, where we are now,
with, with this, this, and today we are here.
It is the conteses of the great secret matryanas.
So we go over these meanings.
Again, as I say that, and you know already, this already is oscillated.
So it's not something that you don't know at all.
But I'm going there something called exploring the meaning,
according the leading taught, leading master's taught, or in the teaching set.
So that's what we're trying to do a little bit, or as much as I can do.
That's what we do.
So now here, according to Belem, it is a great secret in the past.
Sanchi matryamkyu.
That's what Sanchi matryamkyu.
So this is what?
Sanchi, I mean, you know secret.
We all know secret, what means secret.
And great we know, what means great.
And then we know, so matryamkyu, matryamkyu, secret.
So now, what made the secret, actually?
Secret means that generally the very un-teaching is practiced by quietly, peacefully,
and in the hermitage, not announcing, not proclaiming that very low key,
keeping yourself that as personal qualities, personal practices, and practices.
That is really the secret.
That is the secret, practice that.
And when we do that, what is the teaching set?
It will bring the result better.
Every, enormous, every kind of say these things, these and that things, all that,
then it will kind of, that energy, quality of the teaching will be of blessing is evaporated.
And there may be something, quality could come, some hindrance and there are not more kind
of unsuccessful things if you want to some successful, and then kind
of become a little bit more bumpy situations.
So therefore, keep quiet and secret and personal into the hermitage or your own places, practice.
So that is known as secret.
And there are many of them.
Then in the very un-teaching, in the more kind of explorative meanings,
there is true secret, natural secret, and then hidden secret.
All those are in the teaching set in Gohingar Bhatantara.
Appasana, in it available, bhappasana, hiding secret and concerned maybe secret.
Conserved, C-O-N-S-E-A-L, I believe so.
Conserved secret.
And hiding secret, what that means?
Hiding secret means no body kept that hide, hide it.
But due to our lack of the capabilities and the knowledge, intelligence,
it just be hidden, really natural hidden.
Therefore, I translate it natural hidden, natural hidden.
What are such as that?
I mean, there are so many, but big things.
Our mind is hidden.
Your mind and my mind is hidden to each other or to my mind is hidden to me.
And your mind is hidden to you.
Nobody really hide it.
And who does we find out how the mind is?
Only Buddha gave the teaching.
Santa teaches, "Oh, mind is empty now.
Mind is this and that."
Only we explore.
Otherwise, we really never know.
For those reason, many teachings say, "Mind is always your work with us,
but never understood any book by anyone's.
How strange is."
He really said, "It's always with us."
Not just only us.
His mind is also in teaching, he said, "It's beyond death and birth."
But yet, we didn't really discover.
We didn't notice it.
That's called natural hidden, big ones.
All the tatangata gabbas, Buddha natures,
I mean, so many.
And then, for example, things about what is good to us, we don't know ourself.
Even we let them do the good things, what is good for me.
They really don't know.
And there were things we don't know, what is bad for us.
How that is hiding.
So many things are hiding.
So many are naturally hidden.
We don't know the past is hidden.
We don't know the future, what is going to come.
And even in prison times, we don't know so many things.
Only we see, thanks to what we see on the front.
That also popped through in the front of the five senses.
Maybe we see that still they are detected.
Really, unless mind is paying some attention.
Not that.
Those are called natural hidden.
Natural is hiding.
So that.
And now, the second hidden is such as General already said.
Such as very inner teachings.
Very inner teaching, those are what?
In the poem, some of you may join the quoting, don't call.
Please, some of you don't call.
Enouncing the secret things is seven don't call.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
Unmature of unreadiness people to the unreadiness
between them.
Those people who are not ready to hear,
announcing or telling of the very inner teaching,
it is seven don't call.
Seven don't keep the secret.
Very profound view of the Vedayana
and very vastness activity of the Vedayana teachings
should not be pronounced unless people are not--
unless they're ready.
Why?
Because when you're in the nose, even thinking of that
is maybe is going to help with something.
But if they're not ready, it will listen for them.
Listen to connected teaching in the dharma.
It's not going to benefit.
It will jeopardize their continuity of progress of dharma.
Therefore, there's so many numerous teachings.
Teachings, mention, don't mention.
So now, among these two, what is this secret matter?
Because this secret teaching of the Buddha's teaching
will explode the profound hidden qualities,
hidden such as enlightenment, three kaya qualities.
That one is going to explode.
Therefore, it will explode or discover.
Therefore, it is called great secret.
Secret.
So that is really meaning of the secret, great secret.
Then in the Tibetan, the second word is mantra.
Mantaryana.
Mantarya is a Sanskrit word.
Of course, you all know.
And according to the teaching, the mantra has two words.
Man and the kra.
What that means in the teaching is that man means mind.
Also, I think it's simple of English, too.
Mind and man.
Man means mantra.
Oh, so man means mind.
That means protecting, protecting,
or taking out from the taboo, protecting.
So what that means, according to the teaching,
said mantra will protect mind from the dualities
and as well grasping to the identities,
or grasping to the perception aggregates.
It will protect.
Because our mind is grasping to everything.
Everything is so serious, not just in a small way.
Really serious to everything.
This, this, this, and that, this, and that.
Realistically, there is nothing existing as we cling,
as we hold.
Hold is not.
We grasp and cling.
And then we follow with that grasping,
clinging, and we do the perform activities,
such as known as the activity of the good activity,
bad activity, neutral activity, and which is known as karma.
We grasp with emotion, emotion.
And then we follow with that.
And then we create the activity.
And that will create the karma.
So mantra will, according to the teaching,
mantra will protect from that.
We know the meaning of the mantra
and practice properly as it sits.
And therefore, mantra is what?
Whole meaning of the mantra is?
Is, is compassion and emptiness.
Whole meaning of the, whole world meaning of the,
meaning of the mantra is compassion and emptiness union,
not separate.
Why compassion and the version of soul important?
Because it's nature.
Nature of what?
Of a Buddha nature.
Our nature, the own beings sometimes we use terminology.
All true beings is compassion and wisdom.
Also that means what?
Compassion and wisdom, to target the kind of right and left
or kind of black and white, no.
This union with emptiness, there's
no substrate in solid existing compassion, neither wisdom.
That is our nature.
That nature, when it came, appeared
in the form of the, of the skillful means
ways to help us, guard and protect us,
then called mantras or the mantras.
So reality of mantra is?
No other than the wisdom and compassion united union.
That is really mantra.
So that is, that is also echoed in this way,
the greatest signal of mantra yana.
That is spirit.
Again, why?
It's naturally been a spirit.
We didn't discover compassion in the mantra.
The verses are mantra.
And we practice that compassion and wisdom
it will task muted every negative emotions
and transform into the verses.
Therefore mantra is so powerful.
Mantra is so powerful, that song of there
is appeared in the form, the song,
the compassion and wisdom in mantra or the syllabus.
We join.
And that also connects to our heart or our nature
of the mind, all beings.
Therefore it is spirit.
Spirit.